[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: Got
a question in the back?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, the question, so
this is a way to stop the race condition?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, this is a way,
exactly, that's a great way of putting it.
If I subscribe to two different events,
they're gonna fire to me at
whatever order that they come out.
They don't care that I subscribed to
this event first, and that event second.
You're not gonna wait until all the data
from the first event is done before you
start getting messages from the second.
That's a very hard thing to do
usually in concurrent programming, and
that's the way you would do it.
This is what you use when
you wanna order events.
You wanna say, look,
I'm only interested in this event
after these events have occurred.
Does that make sense?
Another question?
>> Speaker 2: And then the next one was,
can you give another example of
observables like the cake cutting example?
>> Jafar Husain: So sometimes these
things can be a bit abstract and
they defy metaphor, but we're gonna try.
So let's give an example.
Now, instead of dispensing slices of
cakes, I'm gonna dispense cakes, right?
So, in this case it's the observable, so
I'm just gonna start throwing
cakes at this poor woman.
Now I'm throwing whole boxes
of cakes at her, right?
And now, you're gonna try, and before I
throw you another cake, you're gonna try
and cut that cake up and then hand
the individual slices of the cake around.
Does that make sense?
A cake is a collection of slices and
I'm pushing one at her and
she's gonna then turn around and
start cutting as fast as she can,
cutting cake slices and then throwing them
at the other people in the room, right?
But while this poor woman's cutting up
cake, I might take another cake and
throw it at her, right?
But what does she wanna do?
She wants to make sure that everybody in
the right order in the room gets their
cake in the right order.
That nobody gets their
cake before anybody else.
So even though I'm throwing cake at her,
what she's gonna do is,
if she's in the middle of cutting
a cake and I hand her a big cake,
she's just gonna sort of put it aside.
She's just gonna put it aside and
she's gonna cut the slices and
hand them out in sequential
order to the people next to her.
Does that make sense?
So I might be throwing cakes
like crazy real fast, right?
But you're just piling up
the cakes next to you, right?
And as you can methodically get to them
in order, you're handing out slices, and
that's the buffer of observables, right?
I've handed you a cake, right back here.
I've handed you a cake, that second
observable, this observable right here.
I've just handed her a cake but she's not
done cutting the slices from the second
observable and handing them out yet.
Does that makes sense?
So that's like an observable
of observables, right?
The individual cake is
a collection of slices.
But we also have a collection of cakes,
and that's the outer observable.
The inner observable is
a collection of slices.
Outer observable is a collection of cakes.
Does that make sense?
Another question.
>> Speaker 2: Would you ever have a case
where one of the subobservables never
completes, therefore
restricting the forEach method?
>> Jafar Husain: Great question.
Great question.
Absolutely, if I give you, and I know this
is where metaphors tend to break down.
But I give you a magical cake,
an Alice in Wonderland cake,
where the slices never end, right?
>> Speaker 2: Throw printers.
>> Jafar Husain: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Throw a printer with
unlimited paper that
keeps printing forever.
>> Jafar Husain: Sure,
that works too, I guess.
So now I've given you this magical cake,
right, and
then you're never gonna get to any
of the other cakes I give you.
You're just gonna keep handing out slices
from this magical cake that never.
In the meantime, your buffer of cakes, I'm
just gonna keep throwing cakes at you, but
you're just gonna keep piling them up,
forever.
And so yes, you would not want to
use concatAll on an infinite stream.
Probably not a good idea.
Does that make sense?
So these are hazards to be aware of.
You don't wanna try and concatenate
an infinite stream to another stream cuz
you're never gonna get
to the other stream.
So great question.
>> Speaker 2: What makes a mouse
move event not an infinite stream?
Because eventually the mouse stops moving,
but
I mean what if the mouse
never stops moving?
>> Jafar Husain: The mouse
is an infinite stream.
Because we've gone from a DOM event which
has no notion of completion onError,
that was the missing piece that
the design patterns guy didn't add.
And we've adapted it into an observable.
But because the underlying source never
says I'm done and never gives you
an error, the observable that we've
adapted it to will never say I'm done or
never give you an error.
It's perfectly reasonable and okay to
have an observable that goes on forever.
And that might seem odd at first and
it seemed odd to the design patterns guy,
and it will, actually, sorry.
That's what seemed natural to design
patterns guys to have a stream go on
forever because they were
thinking about a UI event.
But when you start thinking
about observables,
I mean what can you do with
a collection that goes on forever?
It seems impossible.
It's hard for
us to imagine the infinite, right?
But it turns out because of DOM events
we work with collections that go on
forever all the time, right?
Those are all collections go on forever.
The difference is we have to manage,
we as the consumers have to say whoa,
no more cake.
Stop listing at the right time, and
that usually takes a lot of work and
coordination.
And it's that that I'm gonna show
you how you can avoid today.
I'm gonna show you how you can deal
with observables that are infinite and
combine them together with observables
that are finite, all using simple commands
without introducing a bunch of variables
to keep track of what's going on.
Another question in the back.
So on this example, if the observable
ended up throwing an error between 2 and
3 would 4 be prevented?
So what would happen is if an observable
throws an error between 2 and 3,
the outer observable,
rather the flattened observable, would,
imagine a little x there between the 2 and
the 3.
And then you'd never get 3 and 4.
The whole observable would stop because
any error inside any of the inner
observables is forwarded up
to the outer observable and
as soon as you get an error
the whole thing is completed.
You're never gonna get any more data.
So remember, an observable works this way,
you can get onNext, onNext,
onNext infinitely, but if it doesn't,
it's gonna end with either an onErroe or
an onComplete.
And so if we got an error between the 2
and 3 it would be forwarded up and
the stream would stop right
after that error's arrived.
Does that make sense?
Yep, question?
>> Speaker 2: Will an inner observable
still be iterated over even if you call
dispose of its outer observable?
>> Jafar Husain: No, what happens is every
single time I call forEach on any of these
inner observables, we get a bunch
of little subscriptions, right?
When I call forEach over
the outer observable,
I get a subscription object which I can
use to stop listening to the stream.
But every single time I call forEach
on any of these inner observables,
I also get another subscription object for
just that tiny little stream there.
If you call dispose on the stream for
the flattened observable, what it's
gonna do is it's gonna take a look.
First it's gonna call dispose
on the outer observables.
It's gonna say I don't
care about any more cakes.
I don't want any slices.
All right, so
I'm gonna stop listening for cakes.
And then if you're currently
cutting up a cake, right,
let's say you're the one doing
the flattening here, right?
You're just gonna stop
cutting up that cake.
Does that makes sense?
So calling dispose on the subscription
on the flatten observable will end up
calling dispose on the outer observable
subscription and whatever inner observable
you're currently listening to,
if you are listening to one, right?
Because you might be done
with the inner observable and
the next inner observable
hasn't arrived yet.
Does that makes sense?
In this case they all overlap but
they could arrive over time, these
observables might not overlap at all.
Yep?
>> Speaker 2: Got at least two more here.
How does concatAll know
what pattern to follow?
>> Jafar Husain: Well,
this is the pattern of concatAll.
So, concatAll's job is to make sure that
all the slices are handed out in order.
And so it knows that if it
receives an observable before it's
finished with another observable, it has
to buffer them up and make sure that
it only subscribes to the observables
in the order in which they arrive.
And if it does that,
naturally what'll happen is the flatten
will happen top to bottom, left to right.
And you'll get all the items out in
the order of the collections that they
are inside of arrive.
Does that make sense?
>> Jafar Husain: Okay, so yep.
>> Speaker 2: And
then does dispose trigger the onComplete?
>> Jafar Husain: No, great question.
I really wanna nail this.
When you call dispose on a subscription,
what you're saying to the producer is,
what she's saying to me is, I never want
you to talk to me ever again, right?
Which you could understand,
I'm throwing cakes at her, right?
If I were her I would say,
dude, just go away.
Don't ever say another thing to me.
So that means I'm never
gonna call onComplete.
I mean if you think about it,
it's kind of silly, right?
You just said I never wanna get a call
back and then I say onCompleted, right?
And you're like well, yeah, I know.
I don't want the data, right?
So yes, when we call dispose what
we're saying is I never wanna
hear from you ever again.
I don't care what method it is, right?
Does that makes sense?
So it is different.
Yes, another question.
>> Speaker 2: There's some confusion now
about dispose, but you might have covered.
If dispose is called with an onCompletion
callback, nothing happens?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah,
the first thing you notice is,
you wouldn't even bother to call
dispose when you get an onCompleted.
Because the whole point of calling
dispose is to make sure that the producer
never sends you another message.
And by the time I've said onCompleted,
you know that I'm never gonna
send you another message.
So there's no reason to call dispose.